README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://piotrmurach.github.io/tty" target="_blank"><img width="130" src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/piotrmurach/tty/master/images/tty.png" alt="tty logo" /></a>
</div>

# TTY::Config [![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)][gitter]

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/tty-config.svg)][gem]
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/piotrmurach/tty-config.svg?branch=master)][travis]
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/2383i0dn3hlw9cnn?svg=true)][appveyor]
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/dfac05073e1549e9dbb6/maintainability)][codeclimate]
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/piotrmurach/tty-config/badge.svg)][coverage]
[![Inline docs](http://inch-ci.org/github/piotrmurach/tty-config.svg?branch=master)][inchpages]

[gitter]: https://gitter.im/piotrmurach/tty
[gem]: http://badge.fury.io/rb/tty-config
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/piotrmurach/tty-config
[appveyor]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/piotrmurach/tty-config
[codeclimate]: https://codeclimate.com/github/piotrmurach/tty-config/maintainability
[coverage]: https://coveralls.io/github/piotrmurach/tty-config
[inchpages]: http://inch-ci.org/github/piotrmurach/tty-config

> Define, read and write any Ruby app configurations with a penchant for terminal clients.

**TTY::Config** provides app configuration component for [TTY](https://github.com/piotrmurach/tty) toolkit.

## Features

* Read & write configurations in YAML, JSON, TOML formats
* Simple interface for setting and fetching values for deeply nested keys
* Merging of configuration options from other hashes
* Reading values from environment variables

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'tty-config'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install tty-config

## Contents

* [1. Usage](#1-usage)
  * [1.1 app](#11-app)
* [2. Interface](#2-interface)
  * [2.1 set](#21-set)
  * [2.2 set_if_empty](#22-set_if_empty)
  * [2.3 set_env](#23-set_env)
  * [2.4 fetch](#24-fetch)
  * [2.5 merge](#25-merge)
  * [2.6 coerce](#26-coerce)
  * [2.7 append](#27-append)
  * [2.8 remove](#28-remove)
  * [2.9 delete](#29-delete)
  * [2.10 validate](#210-validate)
  * [2.11 env_prefix=](#211-env_prefix)
  * [2.12 filename=](#211-filename)
  * [2.13 extname=](#213-extname)
  * [2.14 append_path](#214-append_path)
  * [2.15 prepend_path](#215-prepend_path)
  * [2.16 read](#216-read)
  * [2.17 write](#217-write)
  * [2.18 persisted?](#218-persisted)

## 1. Usage

Initialize the configuration and provide the name:

```ruby
config = TTY::Config.new
config.filename = 'investments'
```

then configure values for different nested keys with `set` and `append`:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base, value: 'USD')
config.set(:settings, :color, value: true)
config.set(:coins, value: ['BTC'])

config.append('ETH', 'TRX', 'DASH', to: :coins)
```

get any value by using `fetch`:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
# => 'USD'

config.fetch(:coins)
# => ['BTC', 'ETH', 'TRX', 'DASH']
```

and `write` configration out to `investments.yml`:

```ruby
config.write
# =>
# ---
# settings:
#   base: USD
#   color: true
# coins:
#  - BTC
#  - ETH
#  - TRX
#  - DASH
```

and then to read an `investments.yml` file, you need to provide the locations to search in:

```ruby
config.append_path Dir.pwd
config.append_path Dir.home
```

Finally, read in configuration back again:

```ruby
config.read
```

### 1.1 app

An example of an application configuration:

```ruby
class App
  attr_reader :config

  def initialize
    @config = TTY::Config.new
    @config.filename = 'investments'
    @config.extname = '.toml'
    @config.append_path Dir.pwd
    @config.append_path Dir.home
  end

  def self.config
    @config ||= self.class.new.config
  end
end
```

## 2. Interface

### 2.1 set

To set configuration setting use `set` method. It accepts any number of keys and value by either using `:value` keyword argument or passing a block:

```ruby
config.set(:base, value: 'USD')
config.set(:base) { 'USD' }
```

The block version of specifying a value will mean that the value is evaluated every time its being read.

You can also specify deeply nested configuration settings by passing sequence of keys:

```ruby
config.set :settings, :base, value: 'USD'
```

is equivalent to:

```ruby
config.set 'settings.base', value: 'USD'
```

Internally all configuration settings are stored as string keys for ease of working with configuration files and command line application's inputs.

### 2.2 set_if_empty

To set a configuration setting only if it hasn't been set before use `set_if_empty`:

```ruby
config.set_if_empty :base, value: 'USD'
```

Similar to `set` it allows you to specify arbitrary sequence of keys followed by a key value or block:

```ruby
config.set_if_empty :settings, :base, value: 'USD'
```

### 2.3 set_env

To read configuration options from environment variables use `set_env`. At minimum it requires a single argument which will match the name of `ENV` variable. The name of this parameter is case insensitive.

Given the following environment variables:

```ruby
ENV['HOST'] = '192.168.1.17'
ENV['PORT'] = '7727'
```

You can make the config aware of the above env variables:

```ruby
config.set_env(:host)
config.set_env(:port)
```

Then you can retrieve values like any other configuration option:

```ruby
config.fetch(:host)
# => '192.168.1.17'
config.fetch(:port)
# => '7727'
```

If you want the configuration key name to be different from `ENV` variable name use a block:

```ruby
config.set_env(:host) { 'HOSTNAME' }
config.set_env(:host) { :hostname }
```

You can also configure settings for deeply nested keys:

```ruby
config.set_env(:settings, :base) { 'CURRENCY' }
config.set_env(:settings, :base) { :currency }
config.set_env('settings.base') { 'CURRENCY'}
config.set_env('settings.base') { :currency}
```

And asssuming `ENV['CURRENCY']=USD`:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
# => USD
```

You can also prefix your environment variables. See [env_prefix](#211-env_prefix)

It's important to recognise that `set_env` doesn't record the value for the environment variables. They are read each time from the `ENV` when `fetch` is called.

### 2.4 fetch

To get a configuration setting use `fetch`, which can accept default value either with a `:default` keyword or a block that will be lazy evaluated:

```ruby
config.fetch(:base, default: 'USD')
config.fetch(:base) { 'USD' }
```

Similar to `set` operation, `fetch` allows you to retrieve deeply nested values:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base) # => USD
```

is equivalent to:

```ruby
config.fetch('settings.base')
```

`fetch` has indifferent access so you can mix string and symbol keys, all the following examples retrieve the value:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
config.fetch('settings', 'base')
config.fetch(:settings', 'base')
config.fetch('settings', :base)
```

### 2.5 merge

To merge in other configuration settings as hash use `merge`:

```ruby
config.set(:a, :b, value: 1)
config.set(:a, :c, value: 2)

config.merge({'a' => {'c' => 3, 'd' => 4}})

config.fetch(:a, :c) # => 3
config.fetch(:a, :d) # => 4
```

Internally all configuration settings are stored as string keys for ease of working with file values and command line applications inputs.

### 2.6 coerce

You can initialize configuration based on a hash, with all the keys converted to symbols:

```ruby
hash = {"settings" => {"base" => "USD", "exchange" => "CCCAGG"}}
config = TTY::Config.coerce(hash)
config.to_h
# =>
# {settings: {base: "USD", exchange: "CCCAGG"}}
```

### 2.7 append

To append arbitrary number of values to a value under a given key use `append`:

```ruby
config.set(:coins) { ["BTC"] }

config.append("ETH", "TRX", to: :coins)
# =>
# {coins: ["BTC", "ETH", "TRX"]}
```

You can also append values to deeply nested keys:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :bases, value: ["USD"])

config.append("EUR", "GBP", to: [:settings, :bases])
# =>
# {settings: {bases: ["USD", "EUR", "GBP"]}}
```

### 2.8 remove

Use `remove` to remove a set of values from a key.

```ruby
config.set(:coins, value: ["BTC", "TRX", "ETH", "DASH"])

config.remove("TRX", "DASH", from: :coins)
# =>
# ["BTC", "ETH"]
```

If the key is nested the `:from` accepts an array:

```ruby
config.set(:holdings, :coins, value: ["BTC", "TRX", "ETH", "DASH"])

config.remove("TRX", "DASH", from: [:holdings, :coins])
# =>
# ["BTC", "ETH"]
```

### 2.9 delete

To completely delete a value and corresponding key use `delete`:

```ruby
config.set(:base, "USD")
config.delete(:base)
# =>
# "USD"
```

You can also delete deeply nested keys and their values:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base, "USD")
config.delete(:settings, :base)
# =>
# "USD"
```

### 2.10 validate

To ensure consistency of the data, you can validate values being set at arbitrarily deep keys using `validate` method, that takes an arbitrarily nested key as its argument and a validation block.

```ruby
config.validate(:settings, :base) do |key, value|
  if value.length != 3
    raise TTY::Config::ValidationError, "Currency code needs to be 3 chars long."
  end
end
```

You can assign multiple validations for a given key and each of them will be run in the order they were registered when checking a value.

When setting value all the validaitons will be run:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base, value: 'PL')
# raises TTY::Config::ValidationError, 'Currency code needs to be 3 chars long.'
```

If the value s provided as a proc or a block then the validation will be delayed until the value is actually read:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base) { 'PL' }
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
# raises TTY::Config::ValidationError, 'Currency code needs to be 3 chars long.'
```

### 2.11 env_prefix

Given the following variables:

```ruby
ENV['MYTOOL_HOST'] = '192.168.1.17'
ENV['MYTOOL_PORT'] = ' 7727'
```

You can inform configuration about common prefix using `env_prefix`:

```ruby
config.env_prefix = 'mytool'
```

Then set configuration key name to environment variable name:

```ruby
config.set_env(:host)
config.set_env(:port)
```

And finally retrieve the value:

```ruby
config.fetch(:host) 
#=> '192.168.1.17'
config.fetch(:port)
# => '7727'
```

### 2.12 filename=

By default, **TTY::Config** searches for `config` named configuration file. To change this use `filename=` method without the extension name:

```ruby
config.filename = 'investments'
```

Then any supported extensions will be search for such as `.yml`, `.json` and `.toml`.

### 2.13 extname=

By default '.yml' extension is used to write configuration out to a file but you can change that with `extname=`:

```ruby
config.extname = '.toml'
```

### 2.14 append_path

You need to tell the **TTY::Config** where to search for configuration files. To search multiple paths for a configuration file use `append_path` or `prepend_path` methods.

For example, if you want to search through `/etc` directory first, then user home directory and then current directory do:

```ruby
config.append_path("/etc/")   # look in /etc directory
config.append_path(Dir.home)  # look in user's home directory
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)   # look in current working directory
```

None of these paths are required, but you should provide at least one path if you wish to read configuration file.

### 2.15 prepend_path

The `prepend_path` allows you to add configuration search paths that should be searched first.

```ruby
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)   # look in current working directory second
config.prepend_path(Dir.home) # look in user's home directory first
```

### 2.16 read

There are two ways for reading configuration files and both use the `read` method.

First one, searches through provided locations to find configuration file and read it. Therefore, you need to specify at least one search path that contains the configuration file.

```ruby
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)       # look in current working directory
config.filename = 'investments'   # file to search for
```

Find and read the configuration file:

```ruby
config.read
```

However, you can also specify directly the file to read without setting up any search paths or filenames:

```ruby
config.read('./investments.toml')
```

### 2.17 write

By default **TTY::Config**, persists configuration file in the current working directory with a `config.yml` name. However, you can change that by specifying the filename and extension type:

```ruby
config.filename = 'investments'
config.extname = '.toml'
```

To write current configuration to a file, you can either specified direct location path and filename:

```ruby
config.write('./investments.toml')
```

Or, specify location paths to be searched for already existing configuration to overwrite:

```ruby
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)  # search current working directory

config.write
```

To create configuration file regardless whether it exists or not, use `:force` flag:

```ruby
config.write(force: true)                        # overwrite any found config file
config.write('./investments.toml', force: true)  # overwrite specific config file
```

### 2.18 persisted?

To check if a configuration file exists within the configured search paths use `persisted?` method:

```ruby
config.persisted? # => true
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/tty-config. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Tty::Config project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/piotrmurach/tty-config/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2018 Piotr Murach. See LICENSE for further details.

Commit message:

Add docs about reading custom file extensions and formats in ref to issue #3

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://piotrmurach.github.io/tty" target="_blank"><img width="130" src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/piotrmurach/tty/master/images/tty.png" alt="tty logo" /></a>
</div>

# TTY::Config [![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)][gitter]

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/tty-config.svg)][gem]
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/piotrmurach/tty-config.svg?branch=master)][travis]
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/2383i0dn3hlw9cnn?svg=true)][appveyor]
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/dfac05073e1549e9dbb6/maintainability)][codeclimate]
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/piotrmurach/tty-config/badge.svg)][coverage]
[![Inline docs](http://inch-ci.org/github/piotrmurach/tty-config.svg?branch=master)][inchpages]

[gitter]: https://gitter.im/piotrmurach/tty
[gem]: http://badge.fury.io/rb/tty-config
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/piotrmurach/tty-config
[appveyor]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/piotrmurach/tty-config
[codeclimate]: https://codeclimate.com/github/piotrmurach/tty-config/maintainability
[coverage]: https://coveralls.io/github/piotrmurach/tty-config
[inchpages]: http://inch-ci.org/github/piotrmurach/tty-config

> Define, read and write any Ruby app configurations with a penchant for terminal clients.

**TTY::Config** provides app configuration component for [TTY](https://github.com/piotrmurach/tty) toolkit.

## Features

* Read & write configurations in YAML, JSON, TOML, INI formats
* Simple interface for adding and reading settings for deeply nested keys
* Indifferent access for reading settings
* Merging of configuration settings from other hashes
* Reading values from environment variables

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'tty-config'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install tty-config

## Contents

* [1. Usage](#1-usage)
  * [1.1 app](#11-app)
* [2. Interface](#2-interface)
  * [2.1 set](#21-set)
  * [2.2 set_if_empty](#22-set_if_empty)
  * [2.3 set_env](#23-set_env)
  * [2.4 fetch](#24-fetch)
  * [2.5 merge](#25-merge)
  * [2.6 coerce](#26-coerce)
  * [2.7 append](#27-append)
  * [2.8 remove](#28-remove)
  * [2.9 delete](#29-delete)
  * [2.10 validate](#210-validate)
  * [2.11 env_prefix=](#211-env_prefix)
  * [2.12 filename=](#211-filename)
  * [2.13 extname=](#213-extname)
  * [2.14 append_path](#214-append_path)
  * [2.15 prepend_path](#215-prepend_path)
  * [2.16 read](#216-read)
  * [2.17 write](#217-write)
  * [2.18 persisted?](#218-persisted)

## 1. Usage

Initialize the configuration and provide the name:

```ruby
config = TTY::Config.new
config.filename = 'investments'
```

then configure values for different nested keys with `set` and `append`:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base, value: 'USD')
config.set(:settings, :color, value: true)
config.set(:coins, value: ['BTC'])

config.append('ETH', 'TRX', 'DASH', to: :coins)
```

get any value by using `fetch`:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
# => 'USD'

config.fetch(:coins)
# => ['BTC', 'ETH', 'TRX', 'DASH']
```

and `write` configration out to `investments.yml`:

```ruby
config.write
# =>
# ---
# settings:
#   base: USD
#   color: true
# coins:
#  - BTC
#  - ETH
#  - TRX
#  - DASH
```

and then to read an `investments.yml` file, you need to provide the locations to search in:

```ruby
config.append_path Dir.pwd
config.append_path Dir.home
```

Finally, read in configuration back again:

```ruby
config.read
```

### 1.1 app

An example of an application configuration:

```ruby
class App
  attr_reader :config

  def initialize
    @config = TTY::Config.new
    @config.filename = 'investments'
    @config.extname = '.toml'
    @config.append_path Dir.pwd
    @config.append_path Dir.home
  end

  def self.config
    @config ||= self.class.new.config
  end
end
```

## 2. Interface

### 2.1 set

To set configuration setting use `set` method. It accepts any number of keys and value by either using `:value` keyword argument or passing a block:

```ruby
config.set(:base, value: 'USD')
config.set(:base) { 'USD' }
```

The block version of specifying a value will mean that the value is evaluated every time its being read.

You can also specify deeply nested configuration settings by passing sequence of keys:

```ruby
config.set :settings, :base, value: 'USD'
```

is equivalent to:

```ruby
config.set 'settings.base', value: 'USD'
```

Internally all configuration settings are stored as string keys for ease of working with configuration files and command line application's inputs.

### 2.2 set_if_empty

To set a configuration setting only if it hasn't been set before use `set_if_empty`:

```ruby
config.set_if_empty :base, value: 'USD'
```

Similar to `set` it allows you to specify arbitrary sequence of keys followed by a key value or block:

```ruby
config.set_if_empty :settings, :base, value: 'USD'
```

### 2.3 set_env

To read configuration options from environment variables use `set_env`. At minimum it requires a single argument which will match the name of `ENV` variable. The name of this parameter is case insensitive.

Given the following environment variables:

```ruby
ENV['HOST'] = '192.168.1.17'
ENV['PORT'] = '7727'
```

You can make the config aware of the above env variables:

```ruby
config.set_env(:host)
config.set_env(:port)
```

Then you can retrieve values like any other configuration option:

```ruby
config.fetch(:host)
# => '192.168.1.17'
config.fetch(:port)
# => '7727'
```

If you want the configuration key name to be different from `ENV` variable name use a block:

```ruby
config.set_env(:host) { 'HOSTNAME' }
config.set_env(:host) { :hostname }
```

You can also configure settings for deeply nested keys:

```ruby
config.set_env(:settings, :base) { 'CURRENCY' }
config.set_env(:settings, :base) { :currency }
config.set_env('settings.base') { 'CURRENCY'}
config.set_env('settings.base') { :currency}
```

And asssuming `ENV['CURRENCY']=USD`:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
# => USD
```

You can also prefix your environment variables. See [env_prefix](#211-env_prefix)

It's important to recognise that `set_env` doesn't record the value for the environment variables. They are read each time from the `ENV` when `fetch` is called.

### 2.4 fetch

To get a configuration setting use `fetch`, which can accept default value either with a `:default` keyword or a block that will be lazy evaluated:

```ruby
config.fetch(:base, default: 'USD')
config.fetch(:base) { 'USD' }
```

Similar to `set` operation, `fetch` allows you to retrieve deeply nested values:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base) # => USD
```

is equivalent to:

```ruby
config.fetch('settings.base')
```

`fetch` has indifferent access so you can mix string and symbol keys, all the following examples retrieve the value:

```ruby
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
config.fetch('settings', 'base')
config.fetch(:settings', 'base')
config.fetch('settings', :base)
```

### 2.5 merge

To merge in other configuration settings as hash use `merge`:

```ruby
config.set(:a, :b, value: 1)
config.set(:a, :c, value: 2)

config.merge({'a' => {'c' => 3, 'd' => 4}})

config.fetch(:a, :c) # => 3
config.fetch(:a, :d) # => 4
```

Internally all configuration settings are stored as string keys for ease of working with file values and command line applications inputs.

### 2.6 coerce

You can initialize configuration based on a hash, with all the keys converted to symbols:

```ruby
hash = {"settings" => {"base" => "USD", "exchange" => "CCCAGG"}}
config = TTY::Config.coerce(hash)
config.to_h
# =>
# {settings: {base: "USD", exchange: "CCCAGG"}}
```

### 2.7 append

To append arbitrary number of values to a value under a given key use `append`:

```ruby
config.set(:coins) { ["BTC"] }

config.append("ETH", "TRX", to: :coins)
# =>
# {coins: ["BTC", "ETH", "TRX"]}
```

You can also append values to deeply nested keys:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :bases, value: ["USD"])

config.append("EUR", "GBP", to: [:settings, :bases])
# =>
# {settings: {bases: ["USD", "EUR", "GBP"]}}
```

### 2.8 remove

Use `remove` to remove a set of values from a key.

```ruby
config.set(:coins, value: ["BTC", "TRX", "ETH", "DASH"])

config.remove("TRX", "DASH", from: :coins)
# =>
# ["BTC", "ETH"]
```

If the key is nested the `:from` accepts an array:

```ruby
config.set(:holdings, :coins, value: ["BTC", "TRX", "ETH", "DASH"])

config.remove("TRX", "DASH", from: [:holdings, :coins])
# =>
# ["BTC", "ETH"]
```

### 2.9 delete

To completely delete a value and corresponding key use `delete`:

```ruby
config.set(:base, "USD")
config.delete(:base)
# =>
# "USD"
```

You can also delete deeply nested keys and their values:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base, "USD")
config.delete(:settings, :base)
# =>
# "USD"
```

### 2.10 validate

To ensure consistency of the data, you can validate values being set at arbitrarily deep keys using `validate` method, that takes an arbitrarily nested key as its argument and a validation block.

```ruby
config.validate(:settings, :base) do |key, value|
  if value.length != 3
    raise TTY::Config::ValidationError, "Currency code needs to be 3 chars long."
  end
end
```

You can assign multiple validations for a given key and each of them will be run in the order they were registered when checking a value.

When setting value all the validaitons will be run:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base, value: 'PL')
# raises TTY::Config::ValidationError, 'Currency code needs to be 3 chars long.'
```

If the value s provided as a proc or a block then the validation will be delayed until the value is actually read:

```ruby
config.set(:settings, :base) { 'PL' }
config.fetch(:settings, :base)
# raises TTY::Config::ValidationError, 'Currency code needs to be 3 chars long.'
```

### 2.11 env_prefix

Given the following variables:

```ruby
ENV['MYTOOL_HOST'] = '192.168.1.17'
ENV['MYTOOL_PORT'] = ' 7727'
```

You can inform configuration about common prefix using `env_prefix`:

```ruby
config.env_prefix = 'mytool'
```

Then set configuration key name to environment variable name:

```ruby
config.set_env(:host)
config.set_env(:port)
```

And finally retrieve the value:

```ruby
config.fetch(:host) 
#=> '192.168.1.17'
config.fetch(:port)
# => '7727'
```

### 2.12 filename=

By default, **TTY::Config** searches for `config` named configuration file. To change this use `filename=` method without the extension name:

```ruby
config.filename = 'investments'
```

Then any supported extensions will be search for such as `.yml`, `.json` and `.toml`.

### 2.13 extname=

By default '.yml' extension is used to write configuration out to a file but you can change that with `extname=`:

```ruby
config.extname = '.toml'
```

### 2.14 append_path

You need to tell the **TTY::Config** where to search for configuration files. To search multiple paths for a configuration file use `append_path` or `prepend_path` methods.

For example, if you want to search through `/etc` directory first, then user home directory and then current directory do:

```ruby
config.append_path("/etc/")   # look in /etc directory
config.append_path(Dir.home)  # look in user's home directory
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)   # look in current working directory
```

None of these paths are required, but you should provide at least one path if you wish to read configuration file.

### 2.15 prepend_path

The `prepend_path` allows you to add configuration search paths that should be searched first.

```ruby
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)   # look in current working directory second
config.prepend_path(Dir.home) # look in user's home directory first
```

### 2.16 read

There are two ways for reading configuration files and both use the `read` method. One attempts to guess extension and format of your data, the other allows you to request specific extension and format.

Calling `read` without any arguments searches through provided locations to find configuration file and reads it. Therefore, you need to specify at least one search path that contains the configuration file together with actual filename. When filename is specifed then all known extensions will be tried.

For example, to find file called investments in the current directory do:

```ruby
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)       # look in current working directory
config.filename = 'investments'   # file to search for
```

Find and read the configuration file:

```ruby
config.read
```

You can also specify directly the file to read without setting up any search paths or filenames. If you specify a configuration with a known file extension, an appropriate format will be guessed, in this instance `TOML`:

```ruby
config.read('./investments.toml')
```

In cases where you wish to specify a custom file extension, you will need to also specify the file format to use. For example, if have a file formatted using `YAML` notation with extension called `.config` do:

```ruby
config.read('investments.config', format: :yaml)
```

### 2.17 write

By default **TTY::Config**, persists configuration file in the current working directory with a `config.yml` name. However, you can change that by specifying the filename and extension type:

```ruby
config.filename = 'investments'
config.extname = '.toml'
```

To write current configuration to a file, you can either specified direct location path and filename:

```ruby
config.write('./investments.toml')
```

Or, specify location paths to be searched for already existing configuration to overwrite:

```ruby
config.append_path(Dir.pwd)  # search current working directory

config.write
```

To create configuration file regardless whether it exists or not, use `:force` flag:

```ruby
config.write(force: true)                        # overwrite any found config file
config.write('./investments.toml', force: true)  # overwrite specific config file
```

### 2.18 persisted?

To check if a configuration file exists within the configured search paths use `persisted?` method:

```ruby
config.persisted? # => true
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/tty-config. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Tty::Config project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/piotrmurach/tty-config/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2018 Piotr Murach. See LICENSE for further details.
